W-16238403 Revert "W-16238403 Revert "W-16238403 ha architecture gr fa"" (#642)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.8/modules/ROOT/pages/flex-architecture-multi-region.adoc

= Flex Gateway Multiple Region Deployments
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

> Install Flex Gateway in multiple regions to reduce latency and ensure live failover. You can configure most implementations with either multiple Flex Gateways or multiple Flex Replicas. Dependent on which you chose, there are different considerations for Redis Shared-Storage, policies, and logging. To learn more about Flex Replicas, see xref:index.adoc#replicas[Flex Replicas].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install Flex Gateway in multiple regions to reduce latency and ensure live failover. You can configure most implementations with either multiple Flex Gateways or multiple Flex Replicas. Depending on which you choose, there are different considerations for Redis Shared-Storage, policies, and logging. To learn more about Flex Replicas, see xref:index.adoc#replicas[Flex Replicas].
```

> All the following diagrams show Flex Gateway running in Connected Mode. For Flex Gateway running in Local Mode, the only difference is that Anypoint Platform would not be present in the deployment model. This does not affect how information flows between Flex Gateway and the upstream and downstream services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the following diagrams show Flex Gateway running in Connected Mode. For Flex Gateway running in Local Mode, the only difference is that Anypoint Platform isn't present in the deployment model. This doesn't affect how information flows between Flex Gateway and the upstream and downstream services.
```

The implementation diagrams use Kubernetes terminology, but you can extend the architecture to other technology stacks that have the appropriate network controls applied.

[[implementation-1]]
== Implementation 1: High Availability with the Same APIs in Two Separate Regions

> Implementation 1 provides high availability for non-region specific traffic. The DNS service is configured for active-active failover meaning each region services traffic at all times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementation 1 provides high availability for non-region-specific traffic. The DNS service is configured for active-active failover, meaning each region services traffic at all times.
```

[[implementation-1a]]
=== Implementation 1A: Cross-Regional Flex Gateway

In this implementation:

> * A single Flex Gateway has Flex Replicas distributed across multiple region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A single Flex Gateway has Flex Replicas distributed across multiple regions.
```

> * The Flex Gateway is registered once in Anypoint Platform and deployed across multiple regions and availability zones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Flex Gateway is registered once in Anypoint Platform and deployed across multiple regions and availability zones.
```

* Logs and metrics for each Flex Gateway are consolidated in Anypoint Platform.
* The DNS service is configured for active-active failover to direct traffic to any region at all times.
* APIs deployed to the Gateway are available in all regions and availability zones. 

> * API configurations including upstream services and policies are the same for all regions. Upstream services must be region-agnostic meaning either the DNS is local or it lacks any reference to the region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* API configurations, including upstream services and policies are the same for all regions. Upstream services must be region-agnostic, meaning either the DNS is local or it lacks any reference to the region.
```

> * The Redis cluster should be replicated across regions or Redis shared storage can be used. Redis replication is required when traffic is not region specific.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Redis cluster must be replicated across regions or Redis shared storage can't be used. Redis replication is required when traffic isn't region-specific.   
```

Reviewer: This one I'm not sure about. So needs clarity either way.

* The only cross-regional traffic is Redis synchronization.

In the following diagram, Flex Replicas in different regions and availability zones have distinct Kubernetes deployments:

> image:Flex-Gateway-DR-1.png["A detailed view of implementation 1A, which contains the necessary services to support High Availability in different regions Flex Replicas."]

Reviewer: In different regions for? Or is this Flex Replicas in different regions?

[[implementation-1b]]
=== Implementation 1B: Region-Specific Flex Gateway

In this implementation:

* Each region has a distinct Flex Gateway with all resources as independent entities.
* A separate Flex Gateway is registered for each region.

> * Each region specific API instance has distinct metrics, alerts, and logs in Anypoint Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Each region-specific API instance has distinct metrics, alerts, and logs in Anypoint Platform.
```

* Policies are region specific even if the configuration is similar across regions.
* The DNS service is configured for active-active failover to direct traffic to any region at all times.

> * API deployments are specific to each Flex Gateway. For each intended API a region supports, you must deploy an API instance to the region's Flex Gateway. 

Reviewer: Intended API? I'm not sure what that means.

* API Groups can share contracts (access requests) across regions.
* Shared storage does not require synchronization. 
* There is no cross-regional traffic.

> In the following diagram, all APIs are duplicated and do not require identical configurations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following diagram, all APIs are duplicated and don't require identical configurations:
```

image:Flex-Gateway-DR-2.png["A detailed view of implementation 1B, which contains the necessary services to support High Availability in region-specific Flex Gateways."]

[[implementation-2]]
== Implementation 2: Disaster Recovery for APIs

> This implementation is similar to <<implementation-1a>>. However, the DNS service is active-passive, so the standby region only receives traffic if the primary region becomes unhealthy. This implementation is less complex to configure than implementation 1a.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This implementation is similar to <<implementation-1a>>. However, the DNS service is active-passive, so the standby region only receives traffic if the primary region becomes unhealthy. This implementation is less complex to configure than implementation 1A.
```

Redis replication is not required if a cache loss during failover is acceptable.

In the following diagram, Flex Replicas in different availability zones have distinct Kubernetes deployments, and Region B provides high availability:

image:Flex-Gateway-DR-3.png["A detailed view of implementation 2, which contains the necessary services to enable Disaster Recovery for APIs on Flex Gateway."]

[[implementation-3]]
== Implementation 3: Direct Traffic to the Closest Region

> In both <<implementation-3a>> and <<implementation-3b>>, Flex Gateway directs traffic to the most convenient region to reduce latency. Choose which implementation dependent on your policy requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In both <<implementation-3a>> and <<implementation-3b>>, Flex Gateway directs traffic to the most convenient region to reduce latency. Choose which implementation according to your policy requirements.
```

[[implementation-3a]]
=== Implementation 3A: Direct Traffic to APIs With the Same Policies

This implementation is similar to <<implementation-1a>> and has the same considerations. However, Redis replication is not required because requests are sent to specific regions. Configure high availability or disaster recovery zones in each region to ensure API availability:

> image:Flex-Gateway-DR-4.png["A detailed view of implementation 3A, which contains the necessary services to enable direct customer requests to the closest region."]

Reviewer: Is this to direct customer requests to the closest region, or is there such a thing as "direct customer requests"?

[[implementation-3b]]
=== Implementation 3B: Direct Traffic to APIs With the Different Policies

> This implementation is similar to <<implementation-1b>> and has the same considerations. Deploy region specific gateways and apply the necessary policies to the different APIs. Configure high availability or disaster recovery zones in each region to ensure API availability:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This implementation is similar to <<implementation-1b>> and has the same considerations. Deploy region-specific gateways and apply the necessary policies to the different APIs. Configure high availability or disaster recovery zones in each region to ensure API availability:
```

> image:Flex-Gateway-DR-5.png["A detailed view of implementation 3B, which contains the necessary services to enable direct customer requests to the closest region."]

Reviewer: Same ? as previous.
